README.md, before:

# Sample Steps: Provisioning an EC2 instance with Terraform

## Resources used 
- AWS CLI Toolkit
- Terraform
- Package Manager - Chocolatey (Windows) or Homebrew (macOS)
- Visual Studio
- GitHub

## Step 1: Installing Package Manager
 
Open PowerShell as admin 
Paste this command line: 

``` Set-ExecutionPolicy Bypass -Scope Process -Force; [System.Net.ServicePointManager]::SecurityProtocol = [System.Net.ServicePointManager]::SecurityProtocol -bor 3072; iex ((New-Object System.Net.WebClient).DownloadString('https://community.chocolatey.org/install.ps1')) ```

Commandline Source: https://chocolatey.org/install#individual



## Step 2: Install Terraform

Open PowerShell again as admin to install Terraform 

<img width="975" height="775" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/31e741d7-5d7a-4557-bc7d-a264c058a508" />
Terraform successfully installed

Use this commandline: ``` choco install terraform ``` for Windows,  ``` brew tap hashicorp/tap  ``` and  ``` brew install hashicorp/tap/terraform ``` for Mac

Commandline Source: https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/tutorials/aws-get-started/install-cli


## Step 3: Writing the Terraform HC codes

<img width="816" height="716" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6b70eb9b-4c2e-4560-baa0-a1ddd09b7152" />

## Step 4: Terraform Workflow Commands

-	``` terraform Init ``` : to initialize the terminal
-	``` terraform validate ``` : to check for syntax errors 
-	``` terraform plan ``` : Previewing the execution to know what the resources to be deployed
-	``` terraform apply ``` : commit the changes to the target system: terraform apply


<img width="975" height="733" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b157022a-2bb7-49ce-9794-c9eec0b37820" />



<img width="975" height="681" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a8b02102-275b-4e4e-9191-4d512f782d2f" />


<img width="975" height="613" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c1565d7b-9271-49d2-a6e4-9ddd4765cf2b" />


<img width="975" height="1235" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5fbdc977-b631-4210-920e-1c81a2350c34" />

<img width="975" height="485" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/17a07835-e133-4994-9d9b-7bb885e7ca81" />


<img width="975" height="256" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a2da1933-aee8-4a04-9b82-e0006093b3eb" />

EC2 Instance successfully launched

Commit message:

Update README with project title and disclaimer
Added a disclaimer about original work and updated the project title.

README.md, after:

# Terraform Project: Provisioning an EC2 instance with Terraform

Disclaimer © Ebubechukwu Azozie
All README content, documentation, and screenshot images in this GitHub repository are original work created by me, Ebubechukwu Azozie. Unauthorized copying or reuse without proper attribution is not permitted.

## Resources used 
- AWS CLI Toolkit
- Terraform
- Package Manager - Chocolatey (Windows) or Homebrew (macOS)
- Visual Studio
- GitHub

## Step 1: Installing Package Manager
 
Open PowerShell as admin 
Paste this command line: 

``` Set-ExecutionPolicy Bypass -Scope Process -Force; [System.Net.ServicePointManager]::SecurityProtocol = [System.Net.ServicePointManager]::SecurityProtocol -bor 3072; iex ((New-Object System.Net.WebClient).DownloadString('https://community.chocolatey.org/install.ps1')) ```

Commandline Source: https://chocolatey.org/install#individual



## Step 2: Install Terraform

Open PowerShell again as admin to install Terraform 

<img width="975" height="775" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/31e741d7-5d7a-4557-bc7d-a264c058a508" />
Terraform successfully installed

Use this commandline: ``` choco install terraform ``` for Windows,  ``` brew tap hashicorp/tap  ``` and  ``` brew install hashicorp/tap/terraform ``` for Mac

Commandline Source: https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/tutorials/aws-get-started/install-cli


## Step 3: Writing the Terraform HC codes

<img width="816" height="716" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6b70eb9b-4c2e-4560-baa0-a1ddd09b7152" />

## Step 4: Terraform Workflow Commands

-	``` terraform Init ``` : to initialize the terminal
-	``` terraform validate ``` : to check for syntax errors 
-	``` terraform plan ``` : Previewing the execution to know what the resources to be deployed
-	``` terraform apply ``` : commit the changes to the target system: terraform apply


<img width="975" height="733" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b157022a-2bb7-49ce-9794-c9eec0b37820" />



<img width="975" height="681" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a8b02102-275b-4e4e-9191-4d512f782d2f" />


<img width="975" height="613" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c1565d7b-9271-49d2-a6e4-9ddd4765cf2b" />


<img width="975" height="1235" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5fbdc977-b631-4210-920e-1c81a2350c34" />

<img width="975" height="485" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/17a07835-e133-4994-9d9b-7bb885e7ca81" />


<img width="975" height="256" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a2da1933-aee8-4a04-9b82-e0006093b3eb" />

EC2 Instance successfully launched
